docs/data-sources/file.md, before:

---
page_title: "archive_file Data Source - terraform-provider-archive"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Generates an archive from content, a file, or directory of files.
---

# archive_file (Data Source)

Generates an archive from content, a file, or directory of files.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Archive a single file.

data "archive_file" "init" {
  type        = "zip"
  source_file = "${path.module}/init.tpl"
  output_path = "${path.module}/files/init.zip"
}
```

```terraform
# Archive multiple files and exclude file.

data "archive_file" "dotfiles" {
  type        = "zip"
  output_path = "${path.module}/files/dotfiles.zip"
  excludes    = ["${path.module}/unwanted.zip"]

  source {
    content  = data.template_file.vimrc.rendered
    filename = ".vimrc"
  }

  source {
    content  = data.template_file.ssh_config.rendered
    filename = ".ssh/config"
  }
}
```

```terraform
# Archive a file to be used with Lambda using consistent file mode

data "archive_file" "lambda_my_function" {
  type             = "zip"
  source_file      = "${path.module}/../lambda/my-function/index.js"
  output_file_mode = "0666"
  output_path      = "${path.module}/files/lambda-my-function.js.zip"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `output_path` (String) The output of the archive file.
- `type` (String) The type of archive to generate. NOTE: `zip` and `tar.gz` is supported.

### Optional

- `exclude_symlink_directories` (Boolean) Boolean flag indicating whether symbolically linked directories should be excluded during the creation of the archive. Defaults to `false`.
- `excludes` (Set of String) Specify files/directories to ignore when reading the `source_dir`. Supports glob file matching patterns including doublestar/globstar (`**`) patterns.
- `output_file_mode` (String) String that specifies the octal file mode for all archived files. For example: `"0666"`. Setting this will ensure that cross platform usage of this module will not vary the modes of archived files (and ultimately checksums) resulting in more deterministic behavior.
- `source` (Block Set) Specifies attributes of a single source file to include into the archive. One and only one of `source`, `source_content_filename` (with `source_content`), `source_file`, or `source_dir` must be specified. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--source))
- `source_content` (String) Add only this content to the archive with `source_content_filename` as the filename. One and only one of `source`, `source_content_filename` (with `source_content`), `source_file`, or `source_dir` must be specified.
- `source_content_filename` (String) Set this as the filename when using `source_content`. One and only one of `source`, `source_content_filename` (with `source_content`), `source_file`, or `source_dir` must be specified.
- `source_dir` (String) Package entire contents of this directory into the archive. One and only one of `source`, `source_content_filename` (with `source_content`), `source_file`, or `source_dir` must be specified.
- `source_file` (String) Package this file into the archive. One and only one of `source`, `source_content_filename` (with `source_content`), `source_file`, or `source_dir` must be specified.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The sha1 checksum hash of the output.
- `output_base64sha256` (String) Base64 Encoded SHA256 checksum of output file
- `output_base64sha512` (String) Base64 Encoded SHA512 checksum of output file
- `output_md5` (String) MD5 of output file
- `output_sha` (String) SHA1 checksum of output file
- `output_sha256` (String) SHA256 checksum of output file
- `output_sha512` (String) SHA512 checksum of output file
- `output_size` (Number) The byte size of the output archive file.

<a id="nestedblock--source"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source`

Required:

- `content` (String) Add this content to the archive with `filename` as the filename.
- `filename` (String) Set this as the filename when declaring a `source`.

Commit message:

docs: notes for `archive_file` `resource` versus `data` source

docs/data-sources/file.md, after:

---
page_title: "archive_file Data Source - terraform-provider-archive"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Generates an archive from content, a file, or directory of files. The archive is built during the terraform plan, so you must persist the archive through to the terraform apply. See the archive_file resource for an alternative if you cannot persist the file, such as in a multi-phase CI or build server context.
---

# archive_file (Data Source)

Generates an archive from content, a file, or directory of files. The archive is built during the terraform plan, so you must persist the archive through to the terraform apply. See the `archive_file` resource for an alternative if you cannot persist the file, such as in a multi-phase CI or build server context.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Archive a single file.

data "archive_file" "init" {
  type        = "zip"
  source_file = "${path.module}/init.tpl"
  output_path = "${path.module}/files/init.zip"
}
```

```terraform
# Archive multiple files and exclude file.

data "archive_file" "dotfiles" {
  type        = "zip"
  output_path = "${path.module}/files/dotfiles.zip"
  excludes    = ["${path.module}/unwanted.zip"]

  source {
    content  = data.template_file.vimrc.rendered
    filename = ".vimrc"
  }

  source {
    content  = data.template_file.ssh_config.rendered
    filename = ".ssh/config"
  }
}
```

```terraform
# Archive a file to be used with Lambda using consistent file mode

data "archive_file" "lambda_my_function" {
  type             = "zip"
  source_file      = "${path.module}/../lambda/my-function/index.js"
  output_file_mode = "0666"
  output_path      = "${path.module}/files/lambda-my-function.js.zip"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `output_path` (String) The output of the archive file.
- `type` (String) The type of archive to generate. NOTE: `zip` and `tar.gz` is supported.

### Optional

- `exclude_symlink_directories` (Boolean) Boolean flag indicating whether symbolically linked directories should be excluded during the creation of the archive. Defaults to `false`.
- `excludes` (Set of String) Specify files/directories to ignore when reading the `source_dir`. Supports glob file matching patterns including doublestar/globstar (`**`) patterns.
- `output_file_mode` (String) String that specifies the octal file mode for all archived files. For example: `"0666"`. Setting this will ensure that cross platform usage of this module will not vary the modes of archived files (and ultimately checksums) resulting in more deterministic behavior.
- `source` (Block Set) Specifies attributes of a single source file to include into the archive. One and only one of `source`, `source_content_filename` (with `source_content`), `source_file`, or `source_dir` must be specified. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--source))
- `source_content` (String) Add only this content to the archive with `source_content_filename` as the filename. One and only one of `source`, `source_content_filename` (with `source_content`), `source_file`, or `source_dir` must be specified.
- `source_content_filename` (String) Set this as the filename when using `source_content`. One and only one of `source`, `source_content_filename` (with `source_content`), `source_file`, or `source_dir` must be specified.
- `source_dir` (String) Package entire contents of this directory into the archive. One and only one of `source`, `source_content_filename` (with `source_content`), `source_file`, or `source_dir` must be specified.
- `source_file` (String) Package this file into the archive. One and only one of `source`, `source_content_filename` (with `source_content`), `source_file`, or `source_dir` must be specified.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The sha1 checksum hash of the output.
- `output_base64sha256` (String) Base64 Encoded SHA256 checksum of output file
- `output_base64sha512` (String) Base64 Encoded SHA512 checksum of output file
- `output_md5` (String) MD5 of output file
- `output_sha` (String) SHA1 checksum of output file
- `output_sha256` (String) SHA256 checksum of output file
- `output_sha512` (String) SHA512 checksum of output file
- `output_size` (Number) The byte size of the output archive file.

<a id="nestedblock--source"></a>
### Nested Schema for `source`

Required:

- `content` (String) Add this content to the archive with `filename` as the filename.
- `filename` (String) Set this as the filename when declaring a `source`.
